# C951 Artificial Intelligence  

Resources:  

Russell, S. J. & Norvig, P. (2020). Artificial intelligence: A modern approach (4th ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson. ISBN 9780134610993   

# Chapter 1, Introduction  

## 1.1 What is AI?  

*Human vs. Rational, Thought vs. Behavior* to determine intelligence  

**Turing Test**: A computer passes the test if a human interrogator, after posing some written questions, cannot tell whether the written responses come from a person or from a computer.  

The computer would need the following capabilities:

- **natural language processing** to communicate successfully in a human language;

- **knowledge representation** to store what it knows or hears;

- **automated reasoning** to answer questions and to draw new conclusions;

- **machine learning** to adapt to new circumstances and to detect and extrapolate patterns.  

**Total Turing test**: Turing did not consider physical simulation as part of the demonstration 
of intelligence. The total Turing test includes a physical interaction with objects:  

- **computer vision** and **speech recognition** to perceive the world;

- **robotics** to manipulate objects and move about.  

We can learn about human thought in three ways:

- **introspection**: trying to catch our own thoughts as they go by;

- **psychological experiments**: observing a person in action;

- **brain imaging**: observing the brain in action.  

**Cognitive science** brings together computer models from AI and experimental techniques from psychology to construct precise and testable theories of the human mind.  

*Socrates is a man and all men are mortal*, thus Socrates is am mortal; example of Aristotle's syllogisms.  
These laws of thought initiated the field called **logic**.  

Logic requires *certainty*, but certainty does not exist for answers in politics or 
warefare, so the theory of **probability** is used to provide answers where certainty 
is lacking.  

An **agent** is just something that acts.  

A **rational agent** is one that acts so as to achieve the best outcome or, when there is uncertainty, the best expected outcome.

**Limited rationality**: acting appropriately when there is not enough time to do all the computations one might like. Coming up 
with the best answer for the time and resources given.  

*a priori*: known from general knowledge (all bachelors are unmarried, 2+2=4)  

*a posteriori*: known from experience (the sky is blue, because I have seen it)  

**value alignment problem**: the values or objectives put into the machine must be aligned with those of the human.  

## 1.2 The Foundation of Artificial Intelligence  

Persons that contributed through history towards logical resoning in AI:  
- Aristotle  
- Ramon Llull: created a system of reasoning, tried to implement a mechanical device for it.  
- Thomas Hobbes: *Leviathan*, idea of a thinking machine  
- Rene Descarte: *Dualism*  

> Descartes was a proponent of dualism. He held that there is a part of the human mind (or soul or spirit) that is outside of nature, exempt from physical laws. Animals, on the other hand, did not possess this dual quality; they could be treated as machines.  

- Materialism is the opposite of Dualism  
- Empiricism: started with Francis Bacon, characterized by a dictum of John Locke "Nothing is in the understanding, which was not first in the senses"  
- Induction: David Hume, *A Treatise of Human Nature*   
- Logical Positivism: a combination of rationalism and empiricism  
- **utilitarianism**: that rational decision making based on maximizing utility should apply to all spheres of human activity, including public policy decisions made on behalf of many individuals. Type of consequentialism    
- **consequentialism**: the idea that what is right and wrong is determined by the expected outcomes of an action.  
- **deontological ethics**: which “doing the right thing” is determined not by outcomes but by universal social laws that govern allowable actions, such as “don’t lie” or “don’t kill.”  

a problem is called *intractable* if the time required to solve instances of the problem grows exponentially with the size of the instances.  

any problem class to which the class of NP-complete problems can be reduced is likely to be intractable.  

Contributors to milestones in AI:  
- Marvin Minsky
- John McCarthy  
- Allen Newell  
- Herbert Simon  
- Ed Feigenbaum  
- Raj Reddy  
- Judea Pearl  
- Yoshua Bengio  
- Geoffrey Hinton 
- Yann LeCun  

**Hebbian Learning**  

**Deep learning** refers to machine learning using multiple layers of simple, adjustable computing elements.  
- Relies on powerful hardware  
- Large amounts of training data  










