+++
title = "AI introduction"
date = 2026-05-29
draft = true
tags = ["AI"]
+++

Brief training covering the basic topics of AI  

## Differences between human learning and AI learning  

*Humans are single shot learners*, AI is a **multi-shot** 
learner. This means humans learn on a smaller amount of data 
than AI. 

*Humans have imagination, emotion, and awareness*. Humans form 
ideas, have sensations and understand concepts. They take 
Emotional aspects to decision making. Humans have Genuine understanding and **subjective experiences**  

Humans have **multi-modal learning**. This is the ability to 
receive and quickly integrate sensory information. Use of perception.  

Humans can take information from one source and use it in many ways. 
This is defined as **transferability**. This includes the possesion of 
common sense. 

## AI is not...
- Infallible
  - requires oversight
- Autonomous  
  - also need supervision/oversight 
- Creative  
  - used for *augmentation*, not replacement  
  - AI lacks intuition  
- Bias Free  
  - AI will inherit bias through training data  

## AI Categories

### AI Capabilities  

**Narrow (Weak)**: Specializes in one, very specific task. Excels 
on tasks within defined parameters. Only performs under certain 
conditions. Ex: self driving cars  

**General (strong)**: Performs at human-level. Understands, learns, and 
applies knowledge. 

**Super (ASI)**: Performs above human-level. Reasons and makes better 
decisions than humans.  

### AI Functions:  

**Reactive Machines**: Basic AI; Reacts to specific inputs. 
*unable to make decisions based on memory*.  

**Limited Memory**: More advanced AI; Able to make decision based on 
past experience.  

**Theory of Mind**: Advanced AI; Understands beliefs, emotions and 
intentions.  

**Self Aware**: Most capable AI; Use of neural networks; machines with 
own thoughts.  

### AI Approaches  

**Predictive (Traditional/Rule-based) AI**:  
- Analyzes existing data  
- Uses predefined rules and algorithms  
- Performs specific, often predefined tasks  
- Used for classifications, predictions, and recommendations  

**Generative AI**: 
- Creates new content  
- Learns from vast data sets  
- Produces novel outputs  
- Used to create text, images, audio, code  

**Perscriptive AI**:  
- Uses insights generated by predictive models  
- **Suggests best possible course of action**  
- Acts as a decision-making tool  
- Used in complex scenarios with multiple variables  

### AI Branches  

This only covers a few. There are many more.  

- Machine Learning  
  - Supervised learning  
  - Unsupervised learning
  - Reinforcement learning  
  - Deep learning  
- Natural Language Processing  
  - Learns similar to the way humans learn  
- Robotics  
- Computer Vision 
  - Derives meaningful information from images  
- Expert Systems  

## AI Limitations  

- **Data Scarcity**: Needs lots of *quality* data. Prevent 
*garbage in, garbage out*.  
- Privacy and Security  

## Types of AI Prompts  

- Completion
- Creative 
- Question  
- Translation  
- Instruction  
- Comparison  
- Summarization  
- Dialogue  

If you don't feel like you have not provided enough context for a 
good prompt, add something to the end of your prompt like "Ask 
me follow-up questions untill you have enough context to complete the 
task"  






